Instructor: So far, we've been gathering
very useful information about the target,
and we've seen that the target is always
in the form of target.com, such as google.com.
This name right here, such as google.com,
is known as a domain.
So this is the domain name.
This is what we put in the address bar
to access the target website.
A lot of websites also have subdomains.
Subdomains are the names that you see
before the domain name, like this.
So in this example we have subdomain.target.com,
and a real life example would be mail.google.com.
So in this case, the subdomain is Subdomain,
and obviously in the Google example, the subdomain is mail.
And then the domain name is google.com.
So we know if we go to google.com,
we're gonna get the famous search engine
that allows us to search for things on the internet.
But if we go to mail.google.com,
we're gonna get a completely different web application
that can be used to send and receive emails.
Therefore, it's as if we're getting
completely different websites,
but we're still targeting the same domain name,
which is google.com.
Therefore, if your target is google.com or target.com,
it is very important to discover
all of the subdomains on it,
because these subdomains can give us
a lot of other information.
We can discover sensitive data,
we can discover management pages
like the pages that the admin or members of the website use
to access certain functionality.
We can access completely different web applications,
we can even access beta version of the web application
or parts of the web application
that is still under development.
These parts that are under development
or the beta versions are really good for hackers
because there is a high chance of finding bugs
because these parts of the web application
haven't been tested really well
or have experimental features,
and therefore there's a high chance of them containing bugs.
Therefore, there's a higher chance of finding weaknesses
and exploiting them to gain access to the subdomain,
and then hopefully from there, get access to the server,
or somehow escalate our privileges
to fully control the target website
or the target web server.
Now, discovering subdomains is really, really easy,
and there is a lot of tools out there
that can be used to do that.
The tool that I'm gonna use is called knockpy.
It's already pre-installed in the custom Kali.
If you're not using the custom Kali, you'll have
to manually install it.
I will include its link in the resources, and as usual,
before we use the tool, if we just type its name,
which is knockpy, followed by --help,
we're gonna get a very nice help menu to show us how
to use the tool and all of the other options.
Obviously, the first option that we need to specify is going
to be d DOMAIN after the -d or the --domain.
This is the domain that we want to discover subdomains on.
You have a few other useful options that are not mandatory,
and the main two options
that you might consider using are the --recon
and the --bruteforce.
So the --recon tells no knockpy
to discover subdomains passively
using the publicly available DNS records and databases.
As a result, it won't be making any direct requests
to the target domain, and it will be fast.
However, there is a small chance
that it might not get you all of the potential subdomains.
The other option that you have
right here is the bruteforce option.
And as the name suggests, it's going to use a word list.
So you're gonna have to specify a file
that contains a large number of potential names
that could be subdomains,
and then the program is going to go through these names
one by one and make a request to the target domain.
If it gets a positive response,
it means that this subdomain exists,
otherwise it's gonna move on to the next one.
Therefore, this technique might take much longer
because that depends on the size of the wordlist
or the list of subdomains that you want to try.
And it's going to be making direct requests
to the target domain, so it's not passive compared
to the first method, which is the recon.
Now, the recon is actually really, really good
and usually gets you all of the subdomains.
That's why this is the method that we're going to use.
So first of all, I'm gonna clear my screen
and I'm gonna type the name of the program, knockpy,
and then I'm gonna do --domain
to specify the target domain that I want
to discover subdomains on.
And we're just gonna go with google.com.
And finally, we're gonna do --recon to say
that we want knockpy to use the passive method
to discover all of the subdomains on the specified domain,
which is google.com.
So the command is very, very simple.
We're first of all specifying the name of the tool
that we want to use.
We're giving it the domain that we want
to discover subdomains on using the --domain,
followed by the domain.
And then we're specifying the technique
that we want this tool to use in order
to discover subdomains for us.
We're gonna hit Enter and we're gonna give it some time
to go ahead, search all of the publicly available databases
and DNS records,
and give us all of the subdomains
that it can discover on google.com.
And perfect, after less than a minute,
as you can see, I got 555 subdomains
to be precise for the website that I specified,
which is google.com,
and we can scroll up in here, as you can see,
and for each one of them,
you can even get more information
about the responses that they returned.
But nevertheless, all of these are real subdomains
that exist on the domain that I specified,
which is google.com.
Now, obviously, we got a really big list in this example
because Google is such a huge provider of so many services,
but if you go through them,
you're still gonna find the popular domains
that you're familiar with, like Plus.google,
and Play.google,
and if we scroll up, you're gonna find Gsuite, MAIL, Maps,
and the list goes on.
So now, if you are actually targeting google.com,
you have increased the attack surface by so much
because you can actually go to each one of these subdomains
and see if it's running any applications.
If it does, then you should go ahead and discover bugs
and vulnerability similar to what we're gonna show you
in the next lectures in all of these applications.
And in some cases, you might even be able
to discover sensitive information that is not supposed
to be shared to the public.
You might even discover beta versions of applications.
So these are applications that are still under testing,
and because these applications are still being tested,
they are more likely to be vulnerable.
And last but not least, in many cases,
you'll also discover admin pages or members pages
or employee pages that you'll be able to log in
to private infrastructures
or applications once you manage to get usernames
and passwords or exploit the system further later on
as we go through the course.